# [376. Wiggle Subsequence](https://leetcode.com/problems/wiggle-subsequence/) [Medium]

A sequence of numbers is called a **wiggle sequence** if the differences between successive numbers strictly alternate between positive and negative. The first difference (if one exists) may be either positive or negative. A sequence with fewer than two elements is trivially a wiggle sequence.

For example, `[1,7,4,9,2,5]` is a wiggle sequence because the differences `(6,-3,5,-7,3)` are alternately positive and negative. In contrast, `[1,4,7,2,5]` and `[1,7,4,5,5]` are not wiggle sequences, the first because its first two differences are positive and the second because its last difference is zero.

Given a sequence of integers, return the length of the longest subsequence that is a wiggle sequence. A subsequence is obtained by deleting some number of elements (eventually, also zero) from the original sequence, leaving the remaining elements in their original order.

**Example 1:**

```
Input: [1,7,4,9,2,5]
Output: 6
Explanation: The entire sequence is a wiggle sequence.
```

**Example 2:**

```
Input: [1,17,5,10,13,15,10,5,16,8]
Output: 7
Explanation: There are several subsequences that achieve this length. One is [1,17,10,13,10,16,8].
```

**Example 3:**

```
Input: [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9]
Output: 2
```

-----

## **Anaylsis:**
This problem is to find a sequence of the given array differences between successive numbers strictly alternate. That is two say, starting from the first element of the sequence, the number gets bigger then smaller then bigger, so on and so forth, or first gets smaller then bigger then smaller, so on and so forth.

The hard part is that we may encounter a series of numbers that increase of decrease monotonically. From these numbers, we may select only one into the wiggle sequence. Then everything else follows the greedy policy.  Without losing generality, we can choose the maximum or minimum of these series, i.e. the peak or the valley.

One easy way to find the peak and the valley is to keep track of the differences between adjacent numbers. We can add one to the result once the difference alters from positive to negative or from negative to positive.


## **Code:**
```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int wiggleMaxLength(vector<int>& nums) {
        int n = nums.size();
        // Boundary condition
        if (n < 2) {
            return n;
        }

        int cur_diff = 0;   // track the current difference between num[i] and num[i-1]
        int pre_diff = 0;   // track the previous difference
        int res = 1;
        for (int i = 1; i < nums.size(); i++) {
            cur_diff = nums[i] - nums[i - 1];
            if ((cur_diff > 0 && pre_diff <= 0) || (pre_diff >= 0 && cur_diff < 0)) {
                res += 1;
                pre_diff = cur_diff;
            }
        }
        return res;
    }
};
```

## **Complexity:**
- This algorithm visit the first and ast element of the given array once and every other element twice. So the time complexity of this algorithm is $O(n)$.

- The extra space in this algorithm is used for storing the variables tracking the current difference, the previous difference, and the result, which take up only $O(1)$ space complexity.
