# [605. Can Place Flowers](https://leetcode.com/problems/can-place-flowers/) [Medium]

Suppose you have a long flowerbed in which some of the plots are planted and some are not. However, flowers cannot be planted in adjacent plots - they would compete for water and both would die.

Given a flowerbed (represented as an array containing 0 and 1, where 0 means empty and 1 means not empty), and a number **n**, return if **n** new flowers can be planted in it without violating the no-adjacent-flowers rule.

**Example 1:**

```
Input: flowerbed = [1,0,0,0,1], n = 1
Output: True
```

**Example 2:**

```
Input: flowerbed = [1,0,0,0,1], n = 2
Output: False
```

**Note:**

1. The input array won't violate no-adjacent-flowers rule.
2. The input array size is in the range of [1, 20000].
3. **n** is a non-negative integer which won't exceed the input array size.

-----

## **Anaylsis:**
It is not hard to see that only three consecutive 0's allow one flower to be planted in the middle, except for the two plots on the left and right ends, which need only 2 adjacent 0's to plant a flower.

The greedy policy here is to traverse the flowerbed from left to right and plant a flower in the middle whenever 3 consecutive 0's appear, and add 1 to the flower planted. Two boundary cases need to be dealt with on the left and right ends. One tricky way to avoid special attending on the boundaries is to add a 0 to both ends and then start the traverse from the newly extended left. In this way we can get the maximum number of flowers that can be planted which can be compared to the number required.


## **Code:**
```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    bool canPlaceFlowers(vector<int>& flowerbed, int n) {
        int max_num = 0;
        flowerbed.insert(flowerbed.begin(), 0);
        flowerbed.insert(flowerbed.end(), 0);
        for (int i = 1; i < flowerbed.size()-1; i += 1) {
            if (flowerbed[i-1] == 0 && flowerbed[i] == 0 && flowerbed[i+1] == 0) {
                flowerbed[i] = 1;
                max_num += 1;
            }
        }
        return max_num >= n;
    }
};
```

## **Complexity:**
- The time complexity of inserting a number in front of a vector is `O(n)`; adding one at the end is `O(1)`. Traversing the flowerbed from left to right takes `O(n)` time. Thus, the time complexity of this algorithm is `O(n)`.

- The extra space in this algorithm is used for storing the two 0's and some variables like `max_num`, which are `O(1)` complexity. Thus, the space complexity of this algorithm is also `O(1)`.
